README.md, before:

# doxa_server
In this repository, te code for the server made for our "Treball de recerca" is stored, if you are looking for the GUI or the simulations, those are stored in the following repos:

Android app: https://github.com/Feluk6174/doxa_gui

Simulations: https://github.com/Feluk6174/doxa_simulations

## Instalation guide (Outdated)
The following installation is for Linux, concretly, ubuntu and arch based distros. The same or similar steps sould work with other OSs, but they might have to be adapted.

For the installation, the `git` pakage will be needed.

This project has been tested using python 3.10.7 and python 3.10.4.

First run the following commands:
```
    $ git clone https://github.com/Feluk6174/doxa_server.git
    $ cd doxa_server
```

Then install the libraries using the followuing command:
```
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### installing the database
First, we have to install the database. We use `mariadb`, but a `mysql` database should also work, but this has not been tested.

To install `mariadb` on arch, run the following commands:

```
    $ sudo pacman -S mariadb
    $ sudo mariadb-install-db --user=mysql --basedir=/usr --datadir=/var/lib/mysql
```

To install it on ubuntu, run the follwing:
```
    $ sudo apt update
    $ sudo apt install mariadb-server
```

Run the following commands, to start the database, and make that the database starts after system reboot: 
```
    $ sudo systemctl start mariadb.service
    $ sudo systemctl enable mariadb.service
```

To improve the seurity of the instalation, run the following command:

```
    $ sudo mysql_secure_installation
```

Select the configuations that you find adecuate.

#### Creating the user
Run the following command to enter the database:
```
    $ sudo mysql
```

Run the following command to create the database.
```
    MariaDB> CREATE DATABASE doxa;
```

Run the following command to create the user that will manage the database, replacing `[password]` with the password for the user.
```
    MariaDB> CREATE USER 'doxa'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '[password]';
```

Run the following command to give acces to the user to the database.
```
    MariaDB> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON doxa.* TO 'doxa'@'localhost';
```

Run the following command to make sure that new privileges are put to efect.
```
    MariaDB> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

Now you can exit the database, using `Ctrl+C` or running the following command `exit`.

Next, modify the conf.json file, and change `[password]` for the password that you used while creating the database user.

Finaly finish setting up the database execute the `setup_db.py` script:
```
    $ python setup_db.py
```
### Starting the program
Creating a service, will make that the program starts after system reboot.

To do this, modify the `doxa.service`, replacing `[path]` with the path to `main.py` (you can get the path runing `pwd`), and replacing `[port]` with the port where the program will run.

Then copy the doxa.service file to the `/etc/systemd/system` folder.
```
    $ sudo cp ./doxa.service /etc/systemd/system
```

Finally we can start the program.
```
    $ sudo systemctl start doxa
```

And enable it, this will make the program start after reboot
```
    $ sudo systemctl enable doxa
```

Commit message:

Updated the README to show the current recomended way of installing the server.

README.md, after:

# doxa_server
In this repository, te code for the server made for our "Treball de recerca" is stored, if you are looking for the GUI or the simulations, those are stored in the following repos:

Android app: https://github.com/Feluk6174/doxa_gui

## Instalation guide (Recomended)
The following installation is done with `docker` and `docker-compose`. 

For the installation, the `git` pakage will be needed.

This project has been tested using python 3.10.7 and python 3.10.4.

Download the database and move into the folder:
```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/Feluk6174/doxa_server.git
    $ cd doxa_server
```

First the credentials for the database need to be chosen, for that copy the contents from the `.env.template` to the file `.env`, and complete the filds that arent completed from the `.env` file.

Then you can build the docker using the following command:
```bash 
docker compose build
```

Finally you cann run the server with the following command:
```bash
docker compose up -d
```
If you want to se the output of the server in the terminal, runn the command without the `-d

## Instalation guide (Manualy)
### WARNNING This installation hasnt nbeen checked since Oct 30 2022
The following installation is for Linux, concretly, ubuntu and arch based distros. The same or similar steps sould work with other OSs, but they might have to be adapted.

For the installation, the `git` pakage will be needed.

This project has been tested using python 3.10.7 and python 3.10.4.

First run the following commands:
```
    $ git clone https://github.com/Feluk6174/doxa_server.git
    $ cd doxa_server
```

Then install the libraries using the followuing command:
```
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### installing the database
First, we have to install the database. We use `mariadb`, but a `mysql` database should also work, but this has not been tested.

To install `mariadb` on arch, run the following commands:

```
    $ sudo pacman -S mariadb
    $ sudo mariadb-install-db --user=mysql --basedir=/usr --datadir=/var/lib/mysql
```

To install it on ubuntu, run the follwing:
```
    $ sudo apt update
    $ sudo apt install mariadb-server
```

Run the following commands, to start the database, and make that the database starts after system reboot: 
```
    $ sudo systemctl start mariadb.service
    $ sudo systemctl enable mariadb.service
```

To improve the seurity of the instalation, run the following command:

```
    $ sudo mysql_secure_installation
```

Select the configuations that you find adecuate.

#### Creating the user
Run the following command to enter the database:
```
    $ sudo mysql
```

Run the following command to create the database.
```
    MariaDB> CREATE DATABASE doxa;
```

Run the following command to create the user that will manage the database, replacing `[password]` with the password for the user.
```
    MariaDB> CREATE USER 'doxa'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '[password]';
```

Run the following command to give acces to the user to the database.
```
    MariaDB> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON doxa.* TO 'doxa'@'localhost';
```

Run the following command to make sure that new privileges are put to efect.
```
    MariaDB> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

Now you can exit the database, using `Ctrl+C` or running the following command `exit`.

Next, modify the conf.json file, and change `[password]` for the password that you used while creating the database user.

Finaly finish setting up the database execute the `setup_db.py` script:
```
    $ python setup_db.py
```
### Starting the program
Creating a service, will make that the program starts after system reboot.

To do this, modify the `doxa.service`, replacing `[path]` with the path to `main.py` (you can get the path runing `pwd`), and replacing `[port]` with the port where the program will run.

Then copy the doxa.service file to the `/etc/systemd/system` folder.
```
    $ sudo cp ./doxa.service /etc/systemd/system
```

Finally we can start the program.
```
    $ sudo systemctl start doxa
```

And enable it, this will make the program start after reboot
```
    $ sudo systemctl enable doxa
```
